[KHR] Provide an alternative to <sycl/sycl.hpp> (#814)
KhronosGroup/SYCL-Docs: adoc/extensions/sycl_khr_includes.adoc

|Provides definition of the [code]#byte# alias.
|====

Classes, constants, types and functions provided by the headers listed above
exist within the [code]#::sycl# namespace as with the standard
[code]#<sycl/sycl.hpp># header.

There is no guarantee that headers documented by this extension contain anything
else besides things listed in sections below. For example, [code]#queue# class
has methods which accept [code]#accessor# objects, but
[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/queue.hpp># is not required to provide a definition of
[code]#accessor#.
Therefore, a portable application should include the corresponding header to
define [code]#accessor# definition explicitly.

{note}
However, there is no requirement for the implementations to **only** provide
through those headers exactly what's specified, i.e. they may contain other
functions and classes than documented in this extension. In fact, some classes,
functions or enumerations are documented to be available through multiple
headers. Nevertheless, implementations are encouraged to keep headers contents
as small as reasonably possible to provide maximum benefit for users.
{endnote}

[[sec:khr-includes-version]]

> === [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/version.hpp># header

Reviewer: I created a new section for headers - [cf2a0c8](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL-Docs/pull/814/commits/cf2a0c80e87c5e0cc6c8d6b70911e32a725e67f1). And moved the "Co-existence with other extensions" to a separate section.

* [code]#shift_left#, [code]#shift_right#, [code]#permute#, [code]#select# and
  [code]#reduce# functions
* [code]#exclusive_scan_over_group#, [code]#inclusive_scan_over_group#,
  [code]#joint_exclusive_scan# and [code]#joint_inclusive_scan# functions
  functions

[[sec:khr-includes-math]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/math.hpp># header

This header includes all SYCL built-in functions documented by sections:

* <<sec:math-functions>>
* <<sec:native-precision-math-functions>>
* <<sec:half-precision-math-functions>>
* <<sec:integer-functions>>
* <<sec:common-functions>>
* <<sec:geometric-functions>>
* <<sec:relational-functions>>

[[sec:khr-includes-bit]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/bit.hpp># header

This header contains definition of [code]#bit_cast# pre-adopted from the next
C++ specification.

[[sec:khr-includes-span]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/span.hpp># header

This header contains definitions of [code]#span# and [code]#dynamic_extent#
pre-adopted from the next C++ specification.

[[sec:khr-includes-byte]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/byte.hpp># header

This header contains definition of [code]#byte# type alias

[[sec:khr-includes-other-extensions]]

> === Co-existence with other extensions

Reviewer: Updated - [cf2a0c8](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SYCL-Docs/pull/814/commits/cf2a0c80e87c5e0cc6c8d6b70911e32a725e67f1)

Any extension which does not explicitly document how it can be accessed through
header files should be assumed to be available only through

> [code]#<sycl/sycl.hpp>#.

Reviewer: @gmlueck do you have any preference here?

[code]#<sycl/khr/includes># directory.

[[sec:khr-includes-feature-test]]
== Feature test macro

An implementation supporting this extension must predefine the macro
[code]#SYCL_KHR_INCLUDES# to one of the values defined in the table below.

[%header,cols="1,5"]
|===
|Value
|Description

|1
|Initial version of this extension.
|===

{note} A <<subsec:library-only>> implementation of SYCL cannot predefine macros
outside of header files.
See <<sec:khr-includes-version>> for a portable way to check for this extension.
{endnote}

[[sec:khr-includes-full-list-of-headers]]
== Extension overview

<<table.khr-includes-list>> provides a list of all new headers with high-level
description of their content.

All headers are provided under [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/># include path.

The Description column in the table is intended to help you navigate the
extension document quicker.
It does not offer the exaustive listing of each new header file contents that
provided in subsequent sections below.

[[table.khr-includes-list]]
.List of headers provided by the extension
[width="100%",options="header",cols="1,2"]
|====
|Header
|Description

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/version.hpp>#

> |Provides varios macro definitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Provides various macro definitions.
```

|Contains definitions of [code]#accessor#, [code]#local_accessor# and
[code]#host_accessor# classes.

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/atomic>#
|Contains definition of [code]#atomic_ref# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/half>#
|Contains definition of [code]#half# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/vec>#
|Contains definition of [code]#vec# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/marray>#
|Contains definition of [code]#marray# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/math>#
|This header provides access to the corresponding group of built-in
functions defined by <<sycl:builtins>>

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/groups>#
|This header provides access to [code]#group# and [code]#sub_group# classes, as
well as operations that can be performed with them such as broadcasts or scans

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/multi_ptr>#
|This header provides access to [code]#multi_ptr# class and related address
space class aliases

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/functional>#
|This header provides access to function objects like [code]#plus# or
[code]#locial_or# defined by <<sec:function-objects>>

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/reduction>#
|This header provides access to functionality related to reductions (such as

> [code]#reduction# interface and [code]#reducer class)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[code]#reduction# interface and [code]#reducer# class)
```

Author: Applied in 2f70d45aaef845bd58f590cd75eda3dea70dc932

macro within the compiler. However, the SYCL standard allows for library-only
implementations and therefore a portable application should not assume that
any macro definitions are available until [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/version># is
included.{endnote}

To properly detect in a portable way if this extension is supported by an
implementation, the following approach should be used:

[source]
----
#if __has_include(<sycl/khr/includes/version>)
// The extension is supported, but the SYCL_KHR_INCLUDES is not
// guaranteed to be defined at this point for library-only implementations

#include <sycl/khr/includes/version>
// Now the SYCL_KHR_INCLUDES macro is guaranteed to be defined for all kinds of
// implementations

// Use the extension
#include <sycl/khr/includes/vec>

#else
// Extension is not supported by an implementation
// Fallback to the core SYCL standard
#include <sycl/sycl.hpp>
#endif
----

[[sec:khr-includes-backend]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/backend># header

This header file contains everything related to SYCL backend APIs:

- [code]#enum class backend#
- [code]#backend_traits#
- [code]#get_native#
- [code]#make_*#

> Note that even though functions defined in the header operate with various

Author: Some kind of leftover from a previous version. The intent for this note is to apply to all headers, i.e. the extension does not mandate a strict split. It is a valid (even though useless) implementation option to just include existing `<sycl/sycl.hpp>` from every new header.

Therefore, the note should probably be moved into some common section and generalized.

Also highlighting this to double-check that everyone is on board with the suggested non-strict approach.

Reviewer 3: I agree that we should go with the non-strict approach.  I don't think there is precedent anywhere for "if you include X, I promise you won't also get Y", it would limit what implementations can do, and it would be really hard to test.  I think phrasing that says "You must include `<sycl/sycl.hpp>` or `<sycl/header>` to _guarantee_ features X, Y and Z are available" makes the most sense.

Author: Generalized this note in ba0812d5b01c7528617baae93bddef40b6fe03df, also feedback on its wording is still welcome

classes like [code]#platform# or [code]#queue#, there is no guarantee that
the [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/backend># header provides full definitions for
those classes. In order to write a portable program, additional [code]##include#
directives must be used in a SYCL program to ensure availability of the
corresponding classes.

[[sec:khr-includes-runtime]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/runtime># header

> This header groups most of classes defined by 4.6 SYCL runtime classes.

Author: I would like to also highlight this one. The "most" part is very confusing, I suppose. From the compile-time point of view those classes are to small to give any significant impact being together or separate, so initial version had them together to simplify life for users. But I guess confusion doesn't means simplicity :)

You can expect that I will split those classes into separate headers in the first iteration of applying review feedback. Any comments and suggestions are always welcome, of course.

Reviewer 3: I'm beginning to think that we should only provide the split headers, and not provide grouped headers like this.  If we only provide the split headers, we can get real-life experience with them to figure out which groupings are common, and decide later whether we want to provide them.

Note also that if we choose not to provide any grouped headers, it's trivial for a user to create their own.

[[sec:khr-includes-exception]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/exception># header

This header gives access to error handling APIs defined by <<error-handling>>.
It contains:

- [code]#async_handler# alias
- [code]#exception# and [code]#exception_list# classes
- [code]#errc# enumeration
- [code]#make_error_code# and [code]#sycl_category# free functions
- [code]#std::is_error_code_enum# type trait specialization for
  [code]#sycl::errc#

[[sec:khr-includes-half]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/half># header

This header contains definition of [code]#half# class

[[sec:khr-includes-vec]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/vec># header

This header gives access to [code]#vec# class defined by <<sec:vector.type>>.
It contains:

- [code]#rounding_mode# enumeration
- [code]#elem# struct and [code]#vec# class
- Type aliases defined by the section 4.14.2.2 Aliases
- [code]#__writeable_swizzle__# and [code]#__const_swizzle__# classes defined
  by <<swizzled-vec-class>>

Note that the simple swizzle functions ([code]#XYZW_SWIZZLE# and
[code]#RGBA_SWIZZLE# defined by the table 123) are only available when the macro
[code]#SYCL_SIMPLE_SWIZZLES# is defined before including

> [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/vec>#.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps we could add a non-normative note here saying that it is recommended for developers to define `SYCL_SIMPLE_SWIZZLES` via the command-line and not in code, since this is the only way to guarantee that the macro is defined before the first include of `vec` (which may not be in user code)?

a translation unit within an application only includes
[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/vec># header.

[[sec:khr-includes-other-extensions]]
=== Co-existence with other extensions

The ultimate source of truth about accessibility of an extension through a set
of fine-grained headers is an extension specification itself. However, there are
many existing extensions which may not have been updated to account for this
extension.

Therefore, any extension which does not explicitly document how can it
be accessed through header files, should be assumed to be available through
[code]#<sycl/sycl.hpp># only.

{note}It _may_ seem safe to assume that if an extension modifies some existing
class, then its functionality should be available through a header file which
exposes that class. However, there exist implementation possibilities where this
won't be the case and therefore this assumption is not safe to make for
applications that aim to be portable between SYCL implementations.{endnote}

If an implementation supports this extension together with other extensions,
then any macro defined by other extensions myst be made available through
[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/version># header.

> == Open issues/questions

Author: Immediately recording a point from @illuhad that we may want to have a header that provides forward-declarations only to gather feedback about this.

- Should we put [code]#remove_decoration# into
  [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/type_traits># (currently resides in

>   [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/multi_ptr>#)?

Reviewer 3: I think it should be in `type_traits`.  Type traits are used for generic meta-programming, and it seems to me like somebody might want to use `remove_decoration` without pulling in the whole of `multi_ptr`.

The specification says that `remove_decoration_t<T>` is `T` for undecorated types, so code like this makes sense:

```c++
#include <sycl/khr/includes/type_traits>

template <typename T>
void foo(T ptr) {
  using undecorated_t = sycl::remove_decoration_t<T>;
  bar(static_cast<undecorated_t>(ptr));
}
```

[[sec:khr-includes]]
= sycl_khr_includes

The core SYCL specification says that all APIs provided by the specification are
accessible through single [code]#<sycl/sycl.hpp># header file.

> That leads to increased compilation times, because SYCL users have to pay for

Author: Applied in e4233da37182a425724b4e9555d032e78e5b51c0

an application.

[[sec:khr-includes-dependencies]]
== Dependencies

This extension has no dependencies on other extensions. However, other
extensions may not be adapted to be used together with this extension. See
<<sec:khr-includes-other-extensions>> for more details about this.

[[sec:khr-includes-feature-test]]
== Feature test macro

An implementation supporting this extension must predefine the macro
[code]#SYCL_KHR_INCLUDES# to one of the values defined in the table
below.

[%header,cols="1,5"]
|===
|Value
|Description

|1
|Initial version of this extension.
|===

[NOTE]
====
Please note that an implementation may choose the
<<subsec:library-only, library-only approach>> to implementing the SYCL
specification and therefore it won't be possible for it to predefine any macro
outside of header files. See <<sec:khr-includes-version>> below
about performing a portable check for this extension.
====

[[sec:khr-includes-full-list-of-headers]]
== Extension overview

The <<table.khr-includes-list>> below provides a list of all new
headers with high-level description of their content.

All headers are provided under [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/># include path.

> The Description column in the table is non-formative and intended to help you

Author: Applied in e4233da37182a425724b4e9555d032e78e5b51c0

|Contains definition of [code]#private_memory# and [code]#h_item#

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/interop_handle>#
|Contains definition of [code]#interop_handle# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/backend>#
|Contains definition of [code]#backend_traits# and [code]#make_*# functions

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/bit>#, [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/span>#
|Headers in this set match by name with those provided by the next C++
specification. They contain pre-adopted features from that standard.

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/byte>#
|Contains definition of [code]#byte# alias
|====

Classes, constants, types and functions provided by the headers listed above
exist within the [code]#::sycl# namespace as with the standard
[code]#<sycl/sycl.hpp># header.

There is no guarantee that headers documented by this extension contain anything
else besides things listed in sections below. For example, [code]#queue# class
has methods which accept [code]#accessor# object, but
[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/queue># is not required to provide [code]#accessor#
definition. Therefore, a portable application should include the corresponding
header to get [code]#accessor# definition explicitly.

[NOTE]

> ====

Author: Switched to `{note}` syntax in bcc0d74c979938080e89590111a928a809dc80a8

contains:

- [code]#bundle_state# enumeration
- [code]#kernel_id#, [code]#kernel#, [code]#device_image# and
  [code]#kernel_bundle# classes
- All [code]#info::kernel# information descriptors defined by
  <<sec:kernel-info-descriptors>>
- Free functions like [code]#get_kernel_bundle#, [code]#has_kernel_bundle#,
  [code]#compile#, [code]#link#
- [code]#specialization_id# class

[[sec:khr-includes-exception]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/exception># header

This header gives access to error handling APIs defined by <<error-handling>>.
It contains:

- [code]#async_handler# alias
- [code]#exception# and [code]#exception_list# classes
- [code]#errc# enumeration
- [code]#make_error_code# and [code]#sycl_category# free functions
- [code]#std::is_error_code_enum# type trait specialization for
  [code]#sycl::errc#

[[sec:khr-includes-half]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/half># header

This header contains definition of [code]#half# class

[[sec:khr-includes-vec]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/vec># header

This header gives access to [code]#vec# class defined by <<sec:vector.type>>.
It contains:

- [code]#rounding_mode# enumeration
- [code]#elem# struct and [code]#vec# class

> - Type aliases defined by the section 4.14.2.2 Aliases

Author: Replaced with a proper reference in a55dc244a36c51cdac3627474ba28cd9ead565b5

- [code]#__writeable_swizzle__# and [code]#__const_swizzle__# classes defined
  by <<swizzled-vec-class>>

Note that the simple swizzle functions ([code]#XYZW_SWIZZLE# and
[code]#RGBA_SWIZZLE# defined by the table 123) are only available when the macro
[code]#SYCL_SIMPLE_SWIZZLES# is defined before including
[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/vec>#.

[[sec:khr-includes-marray]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/marray># header

This header gives access to math array types defined by <<sec:marray.type>>.
It contains:

- [code]#marray# class
- Type aliases defined by the section 4.14.3.2 Aliases

[[sec:khr-includes-atomic]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/atomic># header

This header contains:

> - [code]#atomic_fence# function

Reviewer 4: Need a blank line before the bulleted list.

- [code]#memory_order#, [code]#memory_scope# enumerations
- [code]#memory_order_traits# struct and [code]#atomic_ref# class as defined
  by <<sec:atomic-references>>
- [code]#atomic# class and free functions like [code]#atomic_store#,

>   [code]#atomic_fetch_and# as defined by the section 4.15.4 Atomic types

Reviewer 4: Hard coded section number

Author: Replaced with a proper reference in a55dc244a36c51cdac3627474ba28cd9ead565b5

This header gives access to [code]#stream# class and related functionality
described by <<subsec:stream>>. It contains:

- [code]#stream_manipulator# enumeration and corresponding constants (like
  [code]#flush# or [code]#endl#)
- [code]#setprecision# and [code]#setw# functions
- [code]#stream# class
- [code]#template <typename T> const stream& operator<<(const stream& os, const T& rhs)#
  operator

[[sec:khr-includes-type-traits]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/type_traits># header

This header contains:

- [code]#is_property#, [code]#is_property_v#, [code]#is_property_of# and
  [code]#is_property_of_v# defined by <<subsec:properties-interface>>
- [code]#is_group# and [code]#is_group_v# defined by
  <<subsec:group-type-traits>>
- [code]#is_device_copyable# defined by <<subsec:is-device-copyable-type-trait>>
- [code]#any_device_has#, [code]#any_device_has_v#, [code]#all_devices_have#
  and [code]#all_devices_have_v# defined by <<sec:device-aspect-traits>>
- [code]#remove_decoration# type trait

[[sec:khr-includes-property-list]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/property_list># header

This header contains:

- [code]#property_list# class definition

[[sec:khr-includes-functional]]

> === [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/functional>#header

Author: Applied in e4233da37182a425724b4e9555d032e78e5b51c0

This header contains:

> - [code]#plus#, [code]#multiplies#, [code]#bit_and#, [code]#bit_or#,

Reviewer 4: Need a blank line before the bulleted list.  In addition, should each function be its own list item?  It's weird to have a bulleted list with only one item.

Author: The single-item list was split into multiple items in cfaf79c63c835204e2ce09b2c2a32d831d364738

  [code]#exclusive_scan_over_group#, [code]#inclusive_scan_over_group#,
  [code]#joint_exclusive_scan# and [code]#joint_inclusive_scan# functions

[[sec:khr-includes-math]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/math># header

This header includes all SYCL built-in functions documented by sections:

- <<sec:math-functions>>
- <<sec:native-precision-math-functions>>
- <<sec:half-precision-math-functions>>
- <<sec:integer-functions>>
- <<sec:common-functions>>
- <<sec:geometric-functions>>
- <<sec:relational-functions>>

[[sec:khr-includes-bit]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/bit># header

This header contains definition of [code]#bit_cast# pre-adopted from the next
C++ specification.

[[sec:khr-includes-span]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/span># header

This header contains definitions of [code]#span# and [code]#dynamic_extent#
pre-adopted from the next C++ specification.

[[sec:khr-includes-byte]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/byte># header

This header contains definition of [code]#byte# type alias

[[sec:khr-includes-macro]]
=== Preprocessor directives and macros

In case a SYCL implementation is made using library-only approach, macros

> defined by the section 5.6 Preprocessor directives and macros should be

Reviewer 4: Hard coded section number.

included.

For example, [code]#SYCL_LANGUAGE_VERSION# macro should be available even if
a translation unit within an application only includes
[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/vec># header.

[[sec:khr-includes-other-extensions]]
=== Co-existence with other extensions

The ultimate source of truth about accessibility of an extension through a set
of fine-grained headers is an extension specification itself. However, there are
many existing extensions which may not have been updated to account for this
extension.

Therefore, any extension which does not explicitly document how can it
be accessed through header files, should be assumed to be available through
[code]#<sycl/sycl.hpp># only.

{note}It _may_ seem safe to assume that if an extension modifies some existing
class, then its functionality should be available through a header file which
exposes that class. However, there exist implementation possibilities where this
won't be the case and therefore this assumption is not safe to make for
applications that aim to be portable between SYCL implementations.{endnote}

If an implementation supports this extension together with other extensions,

> then any macro defined by other extensions myst be made available through

Author: Applied in e4233da37182a425724b4e9555d032e78e5b51c0

[[sec:khr-includes]]
= sycl_khr_includes

The core SYCL specification says that all APIs provided by the specification are
accessible through single [code]#<sycl/sycl.hpp># header file.

That leads to increased compilation times because SYCL users have to pay for
features that they are not even using. Moreover, the situation doesn't scale

> well with more extensions being proposed.

Author: Removed it in fe64b691ceeea0fed7625668f2592ab8cfcb1f34

This extension provides an alternative set of header files which provide
limited set of APIs each, thus allowing user to avoid paying compilation time

> cost for features that are not used by an application.

Author: Applied in fe64b691ceeea0fed7625668f2592ab8cfcb1f34

The alternative set of headers provided by this extension does not introduce
any new functionality, but simply provides an alternative way of accessing the
core SYCL 2020 features with less compile-time overhead on features unused by

> an application.

Author: Dropped it in fe64b691ceeea0fed7625668f2592ab8cfcb1f34

[[sec:khr-includes-dependencies]]
== Dependencies

This extension has no dependencies on other extensions. However, other
extensions may not be adapted to be used together with this extension. See
<<sec:khr-includes-other-extensions>> for more details about this.

[[sec:khr-includes-feature-test]]
== Feature test macro

An implementation supporting this extension must predefine the macro
[code]#SYCL_KHR_INCLUDES# to one of the values defined in the table
below.

[%header,cols="1,5"]
|===
|Value
|Description

|1
|Initial version of this extension.
|===

{note}
Please note that an implementation may choose the
<<subsec:library-only, library-only approach>> to implementing the SYCL
specification and therefore it won't be possible for it to predefine any macro
outside of header files. See <<sec:khr-includes-version>> below
about performing a portable check for this extension.
{endnote}

[[sec:khr-includes-full-list-of-headers]]
== Extension overview

> The <<table.khr-includes-list>> below provides a list of all new

Author: Applied in cdf04a30b74a521ec25b94a1da55798d2101b156

headers with high-level description of their content.

All headers are provided under [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/># include path.

The Description column in the table is non-normative and intended to help you
navigate the extension document quicker. Formal description of each new header

> file is provided in subsequent sections below.

Author: The idea here was to give a short description which may not cover everything, like "`multi_ptr` and related address space classes" isn't exactly formal. If that's fine, then we can drop the non-normative note

[[table.khr-includes-list]]
.List of headers provided by the extension
[width="100%",options="header",cols="1,2"]
|====
|Header
|Description

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/version.hpp>#
|This header provides varios macro definitions

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/queue.hpp>#
|This header provides defintion of the [code]#queue# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/handler.hpp>#
|This header provides defintion of the [code]#handler# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/event.hpp>#
|This header provides defintion of the [code]#event# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/device.hpp>#
|This header provides defintions of the [code]#device# class and device
selectors

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/platform.hpp>#
|This header provides defintion of the [code]#platform# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/context.hpp>#
|This header provides defintion of the [code]#context# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/index_space.hpp>#
|This header groups together ranges and most of index space identifiers from

> <<sec:ranges-identifiers>>

Author: Yeah, `sec:` is extra in this case, fixed in bba9f81996096b7952f3f25c7fd4de9d0812337c

{note}
Classes like [code]#h_item#, [code]#group# and [code]#sub_group# are provided by
other headers.

> {endnote}

Author: Removed the `{note}` markup and made the table normative in b7325471a84d4c3966f9b75f47e7d1edb689c587

and [code]#host_accessor# classes.

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/atomic.hpp>#
|This header provides defintion of the [code]#atomic_ref# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/half.hpp>#
|This header provides defintion of the [code]#half# data type

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/vec.hpp>#
|This header provides functionality defined by <<sec:vector.type>>, i.e.
[code]#vec# class and related enumerations

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/marray.hpp>#
|This header provides functionality defined by <<sec:marray.type>>, i.e.
[code]#marray# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/math.hpp>#
|This header provides defintions of built-in functions defined by
<<sycl::builtins>>

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/groups.hpp>#
|This header provides defintions of the [code]#group# and [code]#sub_group#
classes

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/group_algorithms.hpp>#
|This header provides defintions of group operations such as broadcasts or scans

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/multi_ptr.hpp>#
|This header provides defintions of the [code]#multi_ptr# class and related
address space class aliases

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/functional.hpp>#
|This header provides definitions of function objects like [code]#plus# or

> [code]#locial_or# defined by <<sec:function-objects>>

Author: Fixed in cde0cd224e434d352cbac3e52d8c362373abe7f6

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/properties/*.hpp>#
|This set of headers each are named after a property class they describe, such
as [code]#use_host_ptr# or [code]#no_init#

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/reduction.hpp>#
|This header provides definitions defined by <<sec:reduction>>, such as
[code]#reduction# interface and [code]#reducer# class. Note that this header
does not provide definitions of group algorithm functions such as
[code]#joint_reduce#.

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/stream.hpp>#

> |This header provides functionality defined by <<subsec::stream>>, i.e.

Author: Fixed in bba9f81996096b7952f3f25c7fd4de9d0812337c

[code]#stream# class and related functions

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/type_traits.hpp>#
|This header provides defintions of various type traits like
[code]#is_property#, [code]#is_group#, [code]#is_device_copyable#, etc.

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/property_list.hpp>#
|This header provides defintion of the [code]#property_list# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/kernel_bundle.hpp>#

> |This header provides definitions defined by <<sec:interfaces.bundles>>, such

Author: "Definitions from" sounds good, I made a pass over the whole document to replace all occurrences in 4abdba609a7f2094ee9d03bd35a88a40d20f65da

<<error-handling>>, such as [code]#exception# and [code]#exception_list# classes

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/hierarchical_parallelism.hpp>#
|This header provides defintions of the [code]#private_memory# and
[code]#h_item# classes

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/interop_handle.hpp>#
|This header provides defintion of the [code]#interop_handle# class

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/backend.hpp>#
|This header provides defintion of the [code]#backend_traits# and
[code]#make_*# functions

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/bit.hpp>#, [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/span.hpp>#
|Headers in this set match by name with those provided by the next C++
specification. They contain pre-adopted features from that standard.

|[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/byte.hpp>#
|This header provides defintion of the [code]#byte# alias
|====

Classes, constants, types and functions provided by the headers listed above
exist within the [code]#::sycl# namespace as with the standard
[code]#<sycl/sycl.hpp># header.

There is no guarantee that headers documented by this extension contain anything
else besides things listed in sections below. For example, [code]#queue# class

> has methods which accept [code]#accessor# object, but

Author: Fixed in cde0cd224e434d352cbac3e52d8c362373abe7f6

header to get [code]#accessor# definition explicitly.

{note}
However, there is no requirement for the implementations to **only** provide
through those headers exactly what's specified, i.e. they may contain other
functions and classes than documented in this extension. In fact, some classes,
functions or enumerations are documented to be available through multiple
headers. Nevertheless, implementations are encouraged to keep headers contents
as small as reasonably possible to provide maximum benefit for users.
{endnote}

[[sec:khr-includes-version]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/version.hpp># header

This header provides definitions of:

* [code]#SYCL_KHR_INCLUDES# macro
* All macro defined by <<sec:preprocessor-directives-and-macros>>
* All macro defined by other extensions supported by an implementation
* Backend macros in the form of [code]#SYCL_BACKEND_<backend_name># defined by
  <<sec:backend-macros>>

[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/version.hpp># header is included by every other header
documented by this extension, as well as [code]#<sycl/sycl.hpp>#.

There is no guarantee that the aforementioned macro are defined before the

> inclusion point of [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/version.hpp>#.

Author: Applied in cdf04a30b74a521ec25b94a1da55798d2101b156

C++ specification.

[[sec:khr-includes-span]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/span.hpp># header

This header contains definitions of [code]#span# and [code]#dynamic_extent#
pre-adopted from the next C++ specification.

[[sec:khr-includes-byte]]
=== [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/byte.hpp># header

This header contains definition of [code]#byte# type alias

[[sec:khr-includes-macro]]
=== Preprocessor directives and macros

In case a SYCL implementation is made using library-only approach, macros
defined by <<sec:preprocessor-directives-and-macros>> should be available
regardless of which one of the headers introduced by this extension is included.

For example, [code]#SYCL_LANGUAGE_VERSION# macro should be available even if
a translation unit within an application only includes
[code]#<sycl/khr/includes/vec.hpp># header.

[[sec:khr-includes-other-extensions]]
=== Co-existence with other extensions

The ultimate source of truth about accessibility of an extension through a set
of fine-grained headers is an extension specification itself. However, there are
many existing extensions which may not have been updated to account for this
extension.

> Therefore, any extension which does not explicitly document how can it
> be accessed through header files, should be assumed to be available through
> [code]#<sycl/sycl.hpp># only.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Any extension which does not explicitly document how it can be accessed through header files
should be assumed to be available only through [code]#<sycl/sycl.hpp>#.
```

> {note}It _may_ seem safe to assume that if an extension modifies some existing
> class, then its functionality should be available through a header file which
> exposes that class. However, there exist implementation possibilities where this
> won't be the case and therefore this assumption is not safe to make for
> applications that aim to be portable between SYCL implementations.{endnote}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> If an implementation supports this extension together with other extensions,
> then any macro defined by other extensions must be made available through
> [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/version.hpp># header.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If an implementation supports this extension, then any macro defined by other
supported extensions must be defined in [code]#<sycl/khr/includes/version.hpp>#.
```

Author: Applied in cdf04a30b74a521ec25b94a1da55798d2101b156
